# Data Help

You are in the data folder! Here you can edit data files used by the site to sort your content.

Data files are the only ones _not_ written in Markdown. They are written in YAML, which is used elsewhere as Markdown metadata. You can learn more about YAML [here](https://learn.getgrav.org/advanced/yaml), but there are at least two kinds of syntax you should be aware of.

## YAML Arrays

YAML Arrays are lists of items that look something like this:

```
- item one
- item two
- item three
```

Each item is designated by a dash followed by a space. In some cases, the order of items may matter. Line breaks in between elements will break the array. Removing the dashes from any file will break the array.

## YAML Maps

YAML Maps are dictionaries of items seperated into key-value pairings, which look like this:

```
key-name: value one
another-key: value two
```

Keys are designated by a string (no spaces) ending in a colon, with the value following after a space. The order of mappings rarely matters. As a general rule, you will only want to change the value of a mapping. The key just helps the site find the value that it needs to.

## Comments

YAML Comments are designated by a hash symbol and look like this:

```
# this is a comment!
this: code does stuff # but this comment doesn't
```

Comments are ignored by the site when reading these files. I have left comments in many of the files to help you understand what they do.

## Nesting

YAML mappings and arrays can be nested inside of eachother. You will often see something like this:

```
a-key:
  - a
  - bunch
  - of
  - values
another-key:
  a-child-key: with a value
  another-child: with another value
one-last-key:
  - with: subkeys
    and: subvalues
  - grouped: into
    an: array
```

The nesting of elements is determined by the number of spaces preceding them---two or more spaces makes an element a child of its parent. This is important: **changing the initial spacing of a YAML file will change the meaning of its contents.**

All of this means that, unless you have a very good reason, you only want to change the values of the arrays or maps in this folder, leaving their keys and the structure of the documents untouched.

## Now What?

Each file in this folder does very different things, so refer to the comments at the beginning of the file when trying to figure out what to change.

Adding new files to this folder will do nothing. Deleting files or changing their filenames will break certain aspects of the site.
