# Projects Help

You are currently in the projects directory of your website. Each project gets its own Markdown file, located here. The main text field is where you write the *description* for the project. The rest of the relevant info (date, image, media type, media link) is defined through metadata.

## Metadata

All metadata fields are required, except for the "Tralbum ID", which is only required for Bandcamp links. You should be able to retrieve this from any Bandcamp track or album page using a bookmarklet with the following code:

```
javascript:window.prompt("Item ID:", TralbumData.id)
```

## Images

The metadata also contains a field where you can enter the name and extension of an image that you want to represent the project. You do not need to enter its filepath. You can upload an image while editing a bio using the images icon in the toolbar, either dragging and dropping the file or clicking the "select one" link. The "Insert" button will insert a markdown link to the image in the text of your project description, but you don't want this. Instead, you should simply enter its filename into the appropriate text field.

Project images are automatically optimized for the web after they are uploaded. They cannot be too big, but for best results on larger screens they should be at least 675px by 675px. All images are also cropped to an equal aspect ratio, maintaining the center of the original image. If you want to focus on a different of the image, then you should crop it manually before uploading.

They can be any web-friendly image type (jpg, png, gif) but when in doubt, us jpg.

## Publishing and Unpublishing

The order that these projects appear on your site is controlled by the \_projects.yml file in the \_data directory. When you have created a new projects file, it will not appear on the site until you add it somewhere in that array. Similarly, the best way to remove a project from the main site is to remove it from this array (by deleting the line or commenting it out). Refer to the the \_data .help file for more information on how to do this.
